---
layout: post
title: "The Mad Science of Staking"
subtitle: "Let's Do The Math"
date: 2022-03-03
background: '/img/posts/math1.jpg'
---
# Staking / Delegating 

In the previous image, you can see a list of Validators. Those Validators have a list of columns which we try to explain:

STATUS: Can be ELECTED or NOT ELECTED. Elected means that the people that has had delegated their $ONE's they are getting back rewards during that election.  
EXPECTED RETURN: This % it's represented in APY. That means the delegated $ONE's will get that % annualized. If you want to know approx how much are you going to get daily you'll have to divide that % into 365.  Note: This % APY it's calculated based on the last epochs and it won't last forever, of course, as the more staked/delegated in the Validator, the less % the Validator it gets. That's why we made the math calculation for about 3-5 epochs. And then decentralized again and delegate in the small ones. 
STAKE: The amount of $ONE's that delegators have chosen to stake with. TIP: A Validator that has a lot of $ONE's doesn't mean that it's better to stake with him. For example, It could be an exchange so we are not favoring the decentralization nor a person nor you. Be smart and do not stake based on this parameter. 
COMMISSION: in this case, the lowest, the better, as any % above 0, will take it from you. 
UPTIME: The higher the better as you make sure that the server is up and you don't lose any downtime time to get rewards if the server fails. Although above 98% it's enough for you to chose that Validator. 